"Every phenomenon, every existing, both subject and object, are best on the total openness,
emptiness, vastness, and total spaciousness.
Still, you don't recognize it. And so, the Buddha gave that teaching. Particularly, he gave that
teaching
because to break down, to release, our ego clinging, our grasping, our clinging, our grasping,
our clinging is something completely different from the nature, from the reality where things are.
Because grasping and clinging means holding, something that holding tangible existing things.
Yet, nature is not like that. Nature is shifting, changing, transforming, its magical discipline
status.
Nature is. But we don't reflect on it. We don't know that. We presume, kind of, vaguely think, or
everything is saying.
We think that, really. We think that, for example, every day is kind of similar. Sun comes, sun
sets,
moon comes, moon sets, bright sky comes, sun comes, hey, you read them. But at the reality level,
there's so
much that every instant changing, shifting. Behind that, that in incidence, changes that, behind
this,
this total openness, the spaciousness. That's where the things are. Our body, our mind, our holding
,
everything is like that. So, this Buddha gave that day teaching openly in order to break down
our ego clinging, our grasping, clinging. That's what Buddha gave the teachings.
Gracious teachings, Buddha gave that teaching. And then the third turning wheel of Dharma
is many explaining about, call it our mind, our nature of the mind. Our mind is, of course, we all
go,
we have the mind. For mind, we don't see. Even our self, we really don't understand our mind.
Except, of course, we can say, I feel, I see, I think. For reality, we think, where is the mind?
Those many of you all know, we went through Jockey teaching and Mahamudra teaching and
Mademaga teaching. Mind is totally free from the existing. That is not something that we think in
the mundane level. It's total. But even though it's total, that openness and spaciousness,
the mind is not total. Excessly, yet it contains all the
loving-kindness, compassion, wisdom, intelligence, joy and appreciation. All that is right here.
Those are the teachings, always say, there were many in my teachings. There was richness of the
mind.
Luxuries of the mind, the mind is all here. But these luxuries, the richness of the mind,
nature of the mind, never going to go away. Even body leaves, verbal communication starts,
according to the teaching, mind moves forward. Mind is indestructible, cannot be relying on that
fire, water, wind, earth or space, anything. It's totally, completely different.
Therefore, in Buddhism, mind came, mind is here, mind moves. When you come,
from the beginning of our mind of strategy, it's now here. Even we don't see tangible,
can hold, say, "Hi, this is my mind, we cannot do each other off there." But here, and it moves.
It moves with the basic good qualities, goodness qualities. Those are the teaching, making this.
"Tathanga Dangarva, Suga Dangarva," all the enlightened qualities, all qualities of the
three Gaya, Dharma Kaya, Sambo Kaya, Nama Kaya, those all in here in the colleges. In order to
explore that colleges, should that women lead to all of us, then great teachers,
"Buddha Shakyamuni Giv," variety teachings on this, about the nature of the mind or "Sogadagarva,"
"Tathanga Dangarva," or "Buddha Giv." Now that, the whole of the teaching, that is goal.
We're going to discover that our trade, that is our trade, goal of our practice, we're going to
discover.
When we discover that, it's not just only going to benefit ourself, but according to it, it will
benefit all living beings. It's not just when we discover, it's going to just benefit for all
beings.
As we are process of that, it will really going to benefit ourself, benefit all beings.
How? By loving kindness, compassion, courage, commitment, patience, understanding, and openness.
And we're going to explore radiating that college to all beings and to ourself. We will be happy,
our individual will be happy, strong, for same time. Going to share radiating that with others,
it will inspire their "Buddha Nature," their qualities, so that they can activate their own
qualities.
And according to Buddhism, of course, we all know, we all heard that. Everyone has the same nature.
We don't have any different nature. Everyone has, no one is exceptional, that luck of the
"Buddha Nature." Everyone has "Buddha Nature," only to wake up, only we have to wake up, we have to
call
that "nature." In order to do that, then "Buddha" means variety of teaching, though "turd,"
"turning well of darkness." Among that, the most powerful, the most direct, most skillful
means teaching, is "Vediyana Teachings." Vediyana teaching is more powerful, more direct, because
why,
in the teaching itself, it has a lot of skillful means practices. Skillful means, full of skillful
means. So, therefore, "Buddha" gives varieties of the teachings, teachings of the Vediyana. Those
are
known as, then, the "Out-Tender," "Inner-Tenders." An "Out-Tender" can be divided into three
teachings.
Those are the "Kiriya-Tender," "Oba-Tender," and "Yoga-Tenders," those three "Tenders." Any "Inner-
Tender"
can be divided into, again, three categories. Those are known as "Maha Yoga," "Anu Yoga," and
"Ati-Yoga Teachings." So, those are the "Buddha" gives those teachings. And those teachings, among
these,
these particular, today's teachings, the involvement of "Muhanul Giri," is the teaching that
belongs from the
"Inner-Tenders." This is one of the very special teachings that the great master Mohan Rinpoche,
who was known as, actually, Magishri came in the Humi poem as Mohan Rinpoche in the 19th century
and
the beginning of the 20th century. Century, he was known as, commonly known as, "Buhan Rinpoche,"
all great master, omniscient, Mohan Rinpoche. He was emanation, he was a turtle, he was
great scholars, writer, and the poetry, the artist, and chemists, really. I mean,
his wisdom is totally open, totally blooming. Blooming, he wrote so many very famous texts and
books in order to share the knowledge with others. So, Mohan Rinpoche gives so many teachings.
Among
that teaching, this is Thema teaching, the combination of Thema and the Gamma teachings
of the "Inner-Tenders" teaching, all combined together, "Inner-Tenders" such as Mahayoga,
Anoyoga, Adoyoga teachings. So, that is what I'm offering you, these teachings. And now,
with that understanding, about the thing of the Magishri. Now, who is Magishri? Magishri
generally is according to teaching. Teaching Magishri is total enlightenment. Buddha,
even in many times, Magishri is the father of all the Buddhas, for example, father of the
one thousand Buddhas of these fortunate eons. That means, according to Buddhism or the Buddha's
teachings, in this eon, these one thousand Buddhas will come. And so, Magishri, in the teachings,
father of all these Buddhas. How does that mean? What does that mean? In the teachings, he was
spiritual father of all these one thousand Buddhas. Upon the time, upon the one time,
the distorted Buddhas, among the four of them came and 996 were going to come. Those are just
regular individual beings, once upon a time. They are not great bodhisattvas, they are not
enlightened beings. They are regular body, regular human beings. Magishri is already enlightened.
The
great bodhisattvas came in the palm of the many different M&M's. So, Magishri encouraged them,
this one thousand individuals, to take the, and to take rafuj and develop the bodhisattva.
And because of the teachings of the Magishri, and this one thousand individually told the rafuj
and develop the bodhisattva. Because of that, they continually then follow the path and reaching
enlightenment. Therefore, in the teachings said, they are, Magishri is a father of the all this,
or spiritual father of all one thousand Buddhas, and as well as many other Buddhas. So, that means,
Magishri got enlightened so long time ago. And Magishri is, according to the dharmakaya level,
is totally enlightened beings. Totally enlightened beings, or there is no other difference between
samadabhadra and Magishri. Dharmakaya Buddha, Samadabhadra. Free from all the complex cities,
free from all the aspects, and a total openness, vastness, inconceivable state of the Buddha,
Samadabhadra. That is dharmakaya state of Magishri. At the samadakaya level, Magishri appeared as
Buddha-vero channels. The very foundation of all the Buddhas, and the body aspect of all the Budd
has,
Buddha-vero channels. And again, Buddha-vero channels, there is many, many emanations of the
Buddha-vero channel appeared in different forms, in different ways. So, those are all Magishri. And
then, dharmakaya level, or even in dharmakaya level, Magishri appeared many emanations of the Mag
ishri.
Those are the Magishri, Buddha-Magishri, Renna-Magishri, Penma-Magishri, Karma-Magishri, Kere,
and as well as Vedya-Magishri. There are many emanations of Magishri. And those forms are also
white Magishri, blue Magishri, red Magishri, and green Magishri, and so forth. So many emanations,
nachos, that appeared. And that, I mean, the sambokaya emanation of the Magishri appeared in many
different forms, peaceful, wrathful,
and semi-wrathful. And wrathful aspect of the Magishri of the sambokaya is then very known as
Yamitakas. And there's many different emanations of Yamitakas, too. So forth, all that is Magishri.
And then Magishri appeared in the form of also green bodhisattvas. And it's like as often we call
Ammon-ed bodhisattvas, Magishri. Magishri is one of the great bodhisattvas. And in order to benefit
all the living beings, Magishri appeared in the form of the Magishri, like green bodhisattvas.
So Magishri, that's what we call Magishri. And there are many emanations in ancient times,
or in the Buddha's time, the greatest teacher of the Buddha at that time, Magishri appeared as,
many times, his disciples, the Buddha's disciples, and the audience. And Magishri activated so many
teachings, but we're constantly teaching, and the Buddha gave the teachings. There are so many
teachings, Magishri appeared as like disciples, the audience who activated, accelerated the
teachings.
And Magishri appeared in the form of the landlords, and the young boys, young girls appeared. So
the
emanation of Magishri in the Ramakaya level is countless. There are no limited boundaries in order
to benefit all beings. So that is really the Magishri. And I think Magishri's teaching practices
become so popular and powerful in India, and I think the very Buddhism came in the 8th century.
And Gopin Masambhava bought this Magishri teaching, along with the Shandaraketa. Shandaraketa is a
renowned emanation of the Magishri himself, and as well as the computational building is a renowned
emanation of the Magishri, and gave all these Magishri teachings. And particularly Magishri
teaching, then Gopin Masambhava gave at the Samyant mountain, mountain, at nine students. Nine
students
gave at-heroga teachings. Among that, then, is among the at-heroga and the jambal, and Magishri,
which is the aspect of all brother's body emanation. So Magishri, the Yamintaka teachings, Magishri
,
Gopin Masambhava gave that, and to the nine-hearted students, and particularly that
teaching that received it, become the master of that teaching, is then Sanghi-Yeshi,
who becomes the famous
Gopin Masambhava. And then, Gopin Masambhava, he did so many Thema teachings throughout the Tibetan
,
and those great Thetans, one after another, began to revel in those Thema teachings, and then
continued
until now. So that's how the Magishri teaching. And since the beginning of the teaching came to
be, in the eighth century, there is so many great Siddhas in the Yogi, in the Yogi, in the Yoginis,
really, who reach the total high enlightenment, total practice of Magishri. So Magishri
become, teaching becomes so popular. And not just the only Thema school is to be the Buddhism,
Magishri is so popular to all the schools that are to be the Buddhism. Almost every
those great master scholars, their personal Giti become as Magishris. They practice, meditate,
all this. So this becomes one of the powerful, special practices of the Magishri, and this
is the, then, particularly so, really kind of introduction about the Magishris, Magishri,
and how that. And now, I talk really about that meaning of the empowerment. Again, of course,
we all know that empowerment means, is very special, ten minutes. As I said early, and you all know
,
Vedayana teaching is full of skill means. And therefore, so many skill means, therefore,
through by the practice of the Vedayana teaching, according to teaching, we can reach enlightenment
within short time, or within this lifetime, or quite free generations, according to the teachings.
In according to Sutra Mahayana, that we, even we practice diligently, it will take to get
enlightened. Many times, eons make it. Many eons can take that. But in Vedayana teaching,
and we practice diligently, follow the according, and stop the teaching, and we can,
then, really, we can get enlightenment. We can see big changes within our lifetime,
and then, as well as continually that. So, therefore, Vedayana teaching is named, also,
Resolve the Yana. Resolve. Then, instantly, we are activating a result, and getting resolved.
Then, in Sutra Mahayana, it's like, you're making the process of the code and the foundation,
and that will take time to develop the result. But in Vedayana teaching, because of all the skill
means, we apply that very diligently, with joyfully, we can get resolved so soon.
Therefore, this Yana, or teaching, is named as Resolve the Yana, or the teaching that captured
result, result of fruit, very fast. So, therefore, named as the Resolve the Yanas.
So, this is the word that is the Vedayana teaching. Among that, there is, as I said, there are so
many
skill means, and this empowerment is, then, one of the very powerful and renowned skill means
practice. What it does, it's called a teaching, that through the involvement, that when you
receive the empowerment, or when you meditate, and receive the empowerment, that will dispel
the habit of the body, speech, mind, and enter the Vedara, the blessings of the Vedara form,
Vedara speech, and the Vedara mind to our body. So, actually, our hidden, the invisible quality
of the, our body, speech, and mind, and dispel in the habit appearance. Again, I will say one more
time, by receiving the blessings of the Vedara, Vedara, blessings of the Vedara body, Vedara
sound, Vedara mind, or if I use enlightenment body, enlightenment speech, enlightenment mind,
it will dispel the habit pattern of the habit pattern, or the obscured habit pattern of the body,
our regular body, speech, and mind, and then we get a result. We get, kind of, evoke our result.
So, therefore, this is called very powerful and skill means of the practice, that instantly, really
,
is bring up the realization. In order to that, empowerment is received by the, by our meditation,
ritual object, linear blessings, and the mantras, and so those are where we receive the empowerment
,
and it is then transcending that. It is like, for those reasons, in Sanskrit, is the empowerment
named as Abhishekara, or Abhishekara, means pouring and dispelling. Pouring,
meanwhile, pouring the linear blessings of the skill means, means, dispelling, what is dispelling,
the habit pattern is an obstacle. So, it really created the, kind of, moment of the, the, the,
awakened energies, and we continue to keep that with courage and commitment, with joy, then
definitely, we get good result. Okay, we can progress. So, that's the meaning of the empowerment.
That's how it is.